Not this section is about links.
So in this video we will learn why we need linked list.
So for covering the topic I'll be discussing about these two things.
Problems that arise and the difference between right and link list.
So first thing problem with Donati all day is often fixed size.
Whenever you are creating an error you have to mention the size and later on you cannot increase or
decrease the size of it.
So once created it remains same.
That is the problem.
Why if X site is the problem.
C unless we are sure that we are going to store some number of elements.
If we know the size the number of elements then we can create an area of that particular size.
If we don't know how many elements we are going to store during the runtime of a program then we cannot
decide the size of fanatic.
If we take some random size then that size may be either insufficient or it may be accessed.
For example I'm not sure how many elements I'm going to store.
So in the program if I declare an array of size 10 then in this array I cannot store more than 10 elements.
Somewhat I have more than 10 elements during runtime.
Then I cannot store them and if I'm just having 2 3 elements then lot of space in that they will be
wasted.
So I think a larger size.
Hundred.
Again I cannot store the elements more than a hundred.
So during the time of a program I don't know how many elements will be required to see one thing I'll
make it clear we are programmers.
We write programs applications for whom for users people who use other programs.
So people who use other programs will decide how many elements together they are going to enter into
our program.
So there what would be the list size or array size.
We don't.
So I try and time the list to size will be decided by but recording time or compile time.
We have to give the size.
This is the problem.
So this is the problem with the idea that next let us see the difference between idea Linklater soil
and discuss more about Daddy than welcome to linguist not liquor but also a little bit of revision.
We already know that we can create an array either inside stack or we can create it inside heap.
So for creating an inside stack we say integer a size some size.
I'm thinking a small size here.
So this will be created inside activation record of mean function.
So idea of safe 5 that we created there.
Then if you want to create an array in heap then we should take a pointer.
So for point that I'll take the variable names B.
Then we should say new whatever the size you want.
So this size can be taken at runtime and mentioned here.
That's the benefit but directly I'm writing here as an example.
So pointer B will be available here and an array of the size of 5 will be created in sight.
Heap this pointer pointing on that.
So this is INSIDE stock and this is inside keep on the benefit of an array is that all these locations
will be contiguous.
There will be side by side so you can access them with index that this zero element first elements again.
Third and fourth element so randomly you can reach on any element so array imagine just like a bench.
There is a bench of capacity 5 5 people can sit on that bench.
So when you're making a bench at that time will decide what size you want then that capacity is fixed.
Not only those many people can sit on that bench.
If more people there's more space it's less people then space is wasted.
So this is like a bench
not coming in the linked list.
Here we what do we want this.
We don't want a fixed sized bench like this because we don't know the size who is using the wood program
and what does is required and how many elements he is having.
We don't know.
Let him go on giving the elements as many elements as you want.
So the let the user give as many elements as you want then they cannot go for a.
And one more thing.
Let the user add more elements and also remove the element.
So we want some data structure which should grow and deals in size.
So we want a variable size structure.
So for that I'll just share the idea about linked list.
So for that we must create memory in the heap during runtime and we should use the linking for making
it as a link list.
So how legacy.
I'm just sharing the idea here.
See for allocating memory inside heaved up inside.
We have taken a pointer and the one pointer I have a look at that five spaces with the one point that
I have a look at that face business.
Again I made it like a bench but now I will take one pointer let me call it does it first.
I'll just keep a pointer with me.
Now watch this carefully I'm sharing the idea of linguists not showing what is linguist just reading
an idea.
I have a pointer I want to store one element just one element then for this I look at the space on this
point the flows will be pointing on this one.
So that is for storing just one element that is the eight is the element.
So at this point the biggest point only on one element.
What about next.
If I want more.
So along with this element we would also look at the space for a pointer to the next element.
If there is any next element of loop pointing on that one.
So right now there is nothing so let it be known so that's it.
We made a Nord so fast.
Pointer was there when we have a look at it.
The memory for just one element.
And we have a look at it in memory for element as the less pointed to the next one.
Now we have one more point that any if we want one more element.
Then again I look at the memory like this.
Here you store the element.
Then this will be pointing on this one like this pointer was pointing on this or this point of view
pointing on this moon so we can call that block as a node.
No the next I have one more element to it.
So again create a more notable content value tool and the pointer to next.
And this point it will be pointing on this one so there is no node beyond this one for let it be known.
So I'm creating and more than ever I want to store an element so it is just like it is not a bench.
Imagine that we have free space whoever want to come and sit.
He should bring his chair.
No the next person come the first person will link to that person then that will link to next person.
So in this field forming a chain or a lings of chairs and if anybody's leaving he can take of a chair
with him.
So whoever is coming in will bring a chair.
So every element will bring its own memory and point to the next element.
So together elements space and the point and space together recall it as normal.
So this is how Reforma linked lists insight.
He.
So now you can see that it's suppose you want to remove tree.
You can easily remove tree this eight instead of pointing one tree.
This will be pointing on to.
That's easy and you can remove this one I'll bring it back as it is.
Now suppose you want to bring some new element in between 3 and do it.
Then you can simply create a..
Legacy element 7 7 will be pointing on dual and 3 will be pointing on 7.
Now if you start from here you'll go on 8.
And for me you can go on 3 from 3 you can go on 7 7 you can go do it.
So it's easy to insert something in between also by just changing links.
So this is data structure is more flexible than Ari and the size can grow and size can really and you
can easily insert the new elements or remove the existing elements from the linguists so that's it.
I have given the introduction what does it mean by linguists what does it mean Mandarin.
So remember this points once again that that is great inside star that is created inside heap using
a pointer and the linguists.
There is no meaning of creating a linguist inside stack.
We create linguists always inside keep so dynamically we look at the memory for each element memory
separately look at it.
If element is removed the memories are gone.
So the sizes variable.
So in the next video we will have the details of a limitless.
This will just I was shading the idea about linguist.